[THEME MUSIC]
>>STEVEN ROSS: Snowballs,
tumors melting.
So what are we capable of?
Who knows?
>>REGINA MEREDITH: That's what
we're capable of and more.
>>ROSS: I've seen someone burned
in my presence with an iron.
They joked.
Hey, you're supposed
to be the healer.
Why don't you do something?
So I went over, blew on it.
The pain was gone.
Why?
If people were tuned
into themselves,
they would either
get information
through their
consciousness or in dreams.
But since most
people don't do that,
their own higher self
manifests something
in their physical being to make
you stop, look, and listen.
Why is this little voice that's
always inside every one of us
always dwelling on the
negative thing that happened?
The three keys to all
manifestation, imagination,
faith, and--
>>REGINA: We have one of our
favorite in-house mystics
back with us, Steven Ross.
Today, we're going to be
tackling the subject of belief,
as in how beliefs can severely
limit our capabilities in life.
Steven himself has
broken through our belief
that the body is solid
and slow to heal,
and has helped hundreds
of people spontaneously
heal from the worst of diseases.
But how does that happen?
Welcome back, Steven.
>>ROSS: Thank you, Regina.
And before I get into
it, I want to thank you.
And I never take any of
these interviews for granted.
I appreciate the invites here.
>>REGINA: Oh, well
you're so welcome.
And obviously, you're back
because everybody loves you.
>>ROSS: Thank you.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: So we're
going to start out
talking about the principle
that habit is not law.
And so we're taking belief
uses the power of belief.
Now we're talking about
the power of belief
today to actually interfere
with our own good.
So--
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: --habit is not law.
So I'd like to
start with a joke.
and a true story.
>>REGINA: OK, that's Steven.
>>ROSS: So a 92-year-old man
goes to his medical doctor
and has an examination.
And then two weeks later, the
doctor sees the man in public
with a gorgeous young
lady on his arm.
A month later, he goes
back for an examination.
The doctor says, you are
really doing wonderfully.
And the man says,
I did exactly what
you told me, to get a hot
mamma and be cheerful.
And the doctor looks at him
and says, I didn't say that.
I said, you have a heart
murmur, and be careful.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] That's cute.
>>ROSS: So along with that
now, Harvard Medical School,
every year, one
of the professors
tells the following story to the
people in the heart division.
He was making his rounds.
He came to the bed of a
patient who was in a coma.
And they were expecting to take
over the bed at any minute.
And he had six interns with him.
So the doctor puts the
stethoscope on the man
and said to all the interns,
listen, listen to that.
Listen to the
wholeness of the beat.
So each of the interns
listens and goes,
oh, yes, we hear that.
Well, they expected the
man to die any moment.
But a week later, the man is up.
He's walking around.
Two weeks later, he checks
out of the hospital.
And the doctor sees him and
says, you are a miracle.
And the man said, well,
that's not what you told me.
And the doctor said,
what did I tell you?
The man said, when you came to
me and said, my heart was whole
and six other doctors
agreed, I thought it was OK.
Well, not only did
he think he was OK,
his heart was 100% rectified.
The man was in a coma.
He was ready to die,
but he still heard that.
So I'm setting our parameters
that habits, belief systems
have locked us in to what is
truly the potential of what
we are all capable of.
And that is what I
want to get across
in our sharing today, Regina.
We have unlimited potentials.
>>REGINA: We absolutely do.
And we read biographies--
people who enjoy
reading biographies
are always just stunned
that this person just
believed they could do it.
They didn't necessarily
have the tools.
They didn't have the money
or backing or education,
oftentimes, but they
believed they could do it.
And that's really the seed--
that's that-- if without
that, it won't happen.
>>ROSS: Correct.
>>REGINA: And with
that, anything
can happen pretty much.
>>ROSS: And that's what
we're going to share
in our brief time today.
>>REGINA: Yes, we're going
to show a couple images too.
And you have this magnificent
book from the 1700s
here with-- we're going
to share all of that.
And people are excited because
everyone loves a miracle,
but everyone feels
like that's something
far off for saints and
mystics and people like you.
[LAUGHS] Mystics.
Right.
But it's not.
So first of all,
let's talk about,
from your perception, what
the human being is capable of.
Right now, even though we're
going through our advancement
as a species and our evolution,
transformation, right now,
what are we capable
of as a species?
>>ROSS: We are capable of
instantaneous healings,
not only for ourselves
but for others.
We are capable of physical
bodies that can do even more.
We're talking about people
who lift backends of cars.
I mean, that may be a
couple of steps down.
But we're talking
about people who
lift thousands of pounds of
weight, where the greatest
weightlifters may not
be able to do that.
We are capable of
having our minds travel
great distances while our
physical body is in one place.
But we're capable of taking that
body to other locations too,
bilocation.
That is also possible
and has been done.
And I will tell you, we are
all capable of doing it.
>>REGINA: Thank you, sir.
Someone has to give
everyone permission
to be outlandish enough to
believe that of themselves.
>>ROSS: And--
>>REGINA: Because we've
been so beaten down
in our beliefs of ourselves.
>>ROSS: Well, a lot of
it has to do with what
people are listening to.
Now without getting into
it, but getting into it,
the politics, the
division in this world
is stopping people from
looking internally.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: Everybody is external.
>>REGINA: This is coming
up in every interview now.
[LAUGHS]
>>ROSS: If we just--
>>REGINA: It's true.
It's time.
>>ROSS: Yes.
And even though people--
some people in the
spiritual community
talk about the advancement we
have and our souls are ready,
they're not going to be ready
if we're locked into what
is taking place always outside.
So it doesn't make
any difference
whether you're on the right
side of the discussion
or the left side
of the discussion,
we're going away
from what is inside
and what we're capable of.
And this is why I'm a
very firm believer, even
some of the quote,
"gurus" and people
who are out there lecturing, you
and I have talked about this,
a lot of them do not know
what they're talking about,
and they do not live
what they're saying.
>>REGINA: That's correct.
>>ROSS: They can tell
an audience, well,
you can do this and that.
When I've met these
people for meals
after we've been on the
podium, somebody talks to me
about prosperity
consciousness and goes,
oh, things are not going well.
You just gave an entire
presentation on--
why aren't you able to
live with your thought?
>>REGINA: Why aren't
you embodying it?
Exactly.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: So there's a flaw
in the belief system there.
>>ROSS: Well, because they
don't think they can--
>>REGINA: So this becomes--
>>ROSS: --do it.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's just a theoretical concept.
>>ROSS: Correct.
>>REGINA: It's like teach best
what we need to learn, right?
>>ROSS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It's like that.
So I want to bring something
up right now because you're
talking about physical
manifestations.
And then we'll start moving
into the rest of this.
>>ROSS: OK.
>>REGINA: In a book called
"The Physics of God,"
by Joseph Selbie, one of
the examples he brings up
is a woman that had
multiple personalities.
She had 10 personalities.
And she was so intriguing.
They actually studied
her physiologically
as the personalities
change, which brings--
in fact, I'd love to
get your take on this,
as the personalities change.
What happened is
her eye color would
change with personalities.
Her voice changed.
Moles would come onto the skin
and disappear from the skin,
right?
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: All-- her
blood type changed.
All of these things
were changing
as her personalities changed.
And they were witnessing
drawing blood and blah.
Anyway, this-- to
me, this is one
of the most wonderful
stories of what energy can do
and how quickly it
can change matter.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: So of course, now, I'm
going to be esoteric about it.
I'm thinking, are these
past life imprints?
Are these other entities
reaching in with their imprints
because she's so permeable?
How do you-- how do you
see multiple personalities
like that?
>>ROSS: I like your
first explanation
that it is a combination.
I am a little bit not
involved with devils,
with outside influences
having that much of a control.
Yes, it does happen.
But the past life
explanation is very real.
There is so much, believe it or
not, Regina, in the literature.
>>REGINA: Cause
that's in our aura.
Yeah.
>>ROSS: Yes, all
that is capable.
And it is in
scientific literature,
but nobody likes
to talk about it.
This is why it's a good
time to bring up Mr. Wright.
Mr. Wright had cancer tumors.
And this was written by Dr.
Klopfer in the psychology
magazines.
He had tumors the
size of snowballs.
Krebiozen, which was a new
extract for cancer, came out.
And his doctor was one
of the clinical trials.
And so the clinical
trials said that people
had to have at least
a year expectancy.
While Mr. Wright
had tumors so bad,
he was on a breathing apparatus.
They didn't expect
him to last two weeks.
But he goes to his doctor,
Klopfer, and he says,
can you please put
me on the Krebiozen?
And the doctor says, I
really can't because you
don't have a year's expectancy.
But he said, I'll
tell you what, I'm
going to give it to you off
the books, out of the study.
So he gives it to Mr. Wright.
And within two weeks, every
tumor is gone, the size of--
>>REGINA: Like you
said, snowballs.
>>ROSS: Snowballs.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>ROSS: Well, he's out.
He's flying an airplane.
And then an article came
out, Krebiozen didn't work.
And no doctor had
any faith in it.
Well, Mr. Wright, overnight,
developed all the tumors back
and ends in the hospital.
Now remember, this in
the medical literature.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ROSS: So the doctor
looks and says,
this is physically impossible
according to our laws.
So he says to Mr. Wright, I am
giving you a double strength
Krebiozen.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>ROSS: And within three days,
all the tumors were gone again.
He is flying.
Now it came out
that Krebiozen was
banned in the United States.
And within one week, Mr. Wright
was dead because he listened.
Now--
>>REGINA: My God.
>>ROSS: --here's the
caveat to the story.
The doctor didn't have
the real Krebiozen.
He had the placebo.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>ROSS: So he didn't even know.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
>>ROSS: So snowballs,
tumors, melting.
So what are we capable of?
Who knows?
>>REGINA: That's what
we're capable of and more.
>>ROSS: Instantly.
>>REGINA: But instead,
people remain attached
to their stories of illness.
>>ROSS: Yes.
But that's programmed.
That's programmed by the
pharmaceutical industry
that the only way that
you're going to be rectified,
no more nature is
going to help you,
you have to be taking this pill.
And the white coat is
going to save your life.
Now I am not advocating people
not going a particular route,
but I'm saying, you've
got to have common sense.
Somehow, people survived.
Nature is one of the
greatest curealls.
But we are giving away
our power, Regina.
That's what I was looking for.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSS: We're giving
away our power outside.
So how can we truly
trust what's inside
if we don't believe inside
is giving us a true story?
>>REGINA: Well, and
sadly, we're bathed
in a sea of people like us that
have the same limited belief
and have given their power away.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: So if you try
to say no, I'm going to--
I'm doing this thing.
I believe I can do it.
And you have all these
voices around you.
And of course, this is
the hero's journey--
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: --isn't it?
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: This always
is the hero's journey
is like, oh, he's crazy.
He can't make it.
So not-- really having to
detach from what others have
to say and the voices
in our head from around
us is as important as finding
that belief inside ourselves.
>>ROSS: Well-- and
here's the other part.
We started with
habit is not law.
Sometimes, it isn't
just the other people.
We fall into our habits, Regina.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: This is
what we always do.
This is how we do it.
This is we're going to--
and because of that, we
don't venture out.
We don't break through
that energy pattern of,
this is what I do.
This is going to be the result.
So if something is
slightly askew from how
it's been before, but
this is our habit,
then it may not work.
And then we call into
question, oh, my gosh,
this is not working anymore.
And then we quickly
run somewhere else
to have them give us the fix.
>>REGINA: Right.
Meaning, we didn't have
full faith to begin with.
>>ROSS: And it's the faith.
>>REGINA: We don't
have the patience.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: We don't
have the will.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: These are
very basic terms
Manly P. Hall spoke in
his books extensively,
about having this faith and
having true faith, true will,
and applying will
in a proper way,
not in a willful stubborn way.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: And explain
the difference.
So now you're a person
who's listening to you.
You're someone in our audience.
And say, there's something
going on in your body.
And doctors have been
pushing you around.
You've been on every drug.
It's not going the way you want.
And you're now
making a statement
to self, how does that kind
of will and belief look?
And how do you employ it?
>>ROSS: I look at it like this.
If people were tuned
into themselves,
they would either
get information
through their
consciousness or in dreams.
But since most people don't
do that, their own higher self
manifests something in their
physical being to make you
stop, look, and listen,
to question with things
you're doing.
So what do you do?
You say to yourself, this
just didn't befall me
because I'm an unlucky person.
Could I have brought
this on upon myself
because of something
I've done in my life?
Or a belief system, when people
call and I've counseled people
now, gosh, it's
been like 50 years,
that's the first thing
I start talking to them.
What was going on in
your life 12 to 16 months
before your diagnosis?
>>REGINA: Key number one.
So if anyone's listening,
pause for a moment and go back.
What was happening
12 to 16 months ago
before this fully manifested?
>>ROSS: Yes.
And every single time,
the person will say, oh,
and it's going to be a
multitude: family, friend,
loved one, husband, wife,
father, oh, yeah, audit
by the IRS, whatever
it was, it was
something that
overwhelmed the psyche
of that particular person.
And then we start peeling it.
So somebody in your audience
needs to look and believe me,
God and the world does not just
punish people for no reason.
We are breaking some sort of--
whether it's the law of nature.
Now what is the law of nature?
If you gluttonly stuff
yourself or you take things
you're allergic to,
you're going to get ill.
And if you do erroneous thinking
that's negative, negative,
negative-- and we're going to
discuss this little voice, why
is this little voice that's
always inside every one of us
always dwelling on the
negative thing that happened?
You and I have an experience,
the little voice is going,
I should have done this.
Why didn't we do that?
This is going to happen.
But if you have a
happy experience,
it doesn't last very long.
Why is that little voice just
be happy through the whole day
and go, oh, my gosh.
This was great.
And then you would find
people happy and fulfilled.
But that little voice is always
going, no, no, this is wrong.
This is going to happen.
This person is going
to tell me off.
I've got to do that.
That little voice is
digging and gnawing
like a mouse on
something on a wire.
And so I look at, let's start
addressing this inward more,
ask the same person
in the audience,
is that little voice
just clanging on you
over and over and over?
Then you need to quiet it down.
>>REGINA: And stop.
Just take a pause and trace it.
What just made that
little voice speak up?
Because then you're just getting
into deep subconscious stuff.
And people like to beat up
on the subconscious mind.
I mean, it's one
of my passions is
the notion of what
we're listening to
within our own mindset.
And the subconscious is
there to try to protect us
on a survival level.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: So it doesn't
want us to do anything
that detaches us
from the community
or that could be
perceived as wrong,
so we could be outcast and
thus, unsafe, or right down
to something that's more
specific about walking
in front of a car or whatever.
But I think it's
there, gnawing at us,
because it's just doing its job,
which is, no, no, no, no, no.
>>ROSS: We're human.
>>REGINA: Trying to protect us.
>>ROSS: It's protecting us.
>>REGINA: Make sure
you're part of the tribe.
Everything's OK.
You're safe.
>>ROSS: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: So we
don't beat it up,
but we have to stop and
say, hold on a minute now.
There's no reason for me to be
asking that question of myself.
>>ROSS: Try the old five minute
test and listen and watch
everything your mind brings up--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>ROSS: --even though you
say, OK, this is what it is.
We're just going to do this.
Look how many subjects
and times, and I
don't care how far along you
go, that little voice is there
because it's part of
the mechanism of being
in a physical body.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, it's just
a part of a survival mechanism.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: That's all.
So we don't have to
beat it up, but we
don't have to listen to
it either all the time.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, don't walk
out in front of a car.
[LAUGHS] Yeah, definitely,
don't bump into things.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: Beyond that.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: You don't have
to listen to the chatter.
So you and I--
before, off camera,
we had talked
about the notion of
where humans have broken
through certain limits
like, it was a big one
when Roger Bannister broke
through the four-minute mile,
for example.
>>ROSS: Yes.
And I have an extensive
sports background,
so I'm very familiar.
>>REGINA: And you were in track.
>>ROSS: Yes, I ran
track and field.
But I was a sprinter, not the--
the mile.
But nobody believed you
could break four minutes.
They really-- there was some
writings that said your joints
would not be able to hold
up in a physical body--
>>REGINA: They'd blow apart?
I mean, what--
>>ROSS: Yeah, they
would just fall apart
on the track, all the bones.
And then somebody said,
in order to break it,
it would have to be a
68 degree day, no wind,
perfect conditions,
and good competition.
So here's Roger
Bannister in England.
Rainy, windy day.
It was worse than 68 degrees.
There was no really
other good runner.
And he runs 3:59:4.
He broke the four minutes.
And after that, all
kinds of other athletes
were able to break four minutes.
But why?
They were perfect
physical specimens,
but that was not enough.
They needed the OK.
>>REGINA: To believe
it was possible.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: Do you know what
Roger Bannister had to say,
was going on inside
him that day?
Did he ever make a comment
about what was going on?
>>ROSS: He-- and by the
way, he was knighted.
So he ended up Sir
Roger Bannister.
He was a medical doctor.
He was a competitive athlete.
>>REGINA: Did he ever say what
happened that day when he just
broke through?
>>ROSS: I never read.
Although, I've read
reports from him.
But it never really said, I
knew-- no, he was a competitor.
And he went out.
And maybe, because the
conditions were bad,
he had to do more
to overcome them.
And sometimes, that
is the motivation.
And that is what we'll find
in some of the other examples
is that there is
a motivator that
came into play where
we shifted gears
from our habit, our fear--
>>REGINA: To our potential.
>>ROSS: --or belief
to our true potential.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>ROSS: Shifted gears.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
because I never read
him saying anything
particularly profound
about that day, either.
>>ROSS: No.
>>REGINA: I thought
maybe you had.
>>ROSS: And there was
not enough competition
like, it was neck and
neck, like a horse race.
They were boom, boom,
they hit the wire.
No, it was by himself.
>>REGINA: And he broke
it for everyone--
>>ROSS: Correct.
>>REGINA: --for all the
others waiting to break it,
to believe they could, which
is wonderful because it's
such a simple clean
little example.
Now let's talk about--
I want to go into because we
have some images that you've
shared with me.
And I said, we've
got to share these.
So people who've
watched us, before
understand that you
learned early in life
that this body can respond
very quickly to thought, mind,
and intention.
And so you felt, I don't
know, hundreds, if not
thousands by now, I
don't know, of people.
And one day, you--
I was in your home and you said,
well, this is what it's like,
Regina.
And you handed me a pillowcase.
And the pillowcase had a bunch
of letters in it, and said,
you could see how it works.
And people like, oh, my God.
The tumor went away.
Thank you so much.
I'll love you forever.
It was love letters because
you've helped people.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: And you
don't charge for it.
It's just what you are and
do from the past through now.
So on that note, let's
talk about this man
that came to you.
And he had these
nasty looking red--
I don't know what you call
them, all over his neck
and his head and his face.
>>ROSS: Well--
>>REGINA: What were they?
I mean--
>>ROSS: He spoke.
And it was a FaceTime.
So I was never with him.
And he woke up
with these heavy--
more than just surface blotches
but lumps all over his body.
And we spoke a little bit.
And he asked if I might
be able to assist him.
I said I would.
And the next morning,
when he woke up, it was--
>>REGINA: We can see in
the pictures here, it was--
>>ROSS: Yeah, it was 90%--
>>REGINA: --gone.
>>ROSS: --it was gone.
>>REGINA: What--
Did he call you?
>>ROSS: Yes, he-- well,
he sent the pictures.
He sent the pictures.
He said, he had sent
the original pictures
to a medical doctor,
said, oh, my God.
We'll get you in.
Because he contacted
the doctor at night.
You've got to come
in the next day.
We'll look and see what's there.
But he had a picture of--
the picture in his
mind is of what he had.
The picture in my mind is
what he was not going to have.
The picture in my
mind, which replaced
his picture was that he--
>>REGINA: The
perfected template.
>>ROSS: It was clear.
Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ROSS: But before we
make it, the people
are going to be contacting
me for healings.
You and I discussed this.
I don't do that as
much as I told him.
He has to investigate
internally why this came up.
The same thing we said before.
Because he, of course, knew
that I have helped individuals.
And this is what I think
makes the best healers.
Healers don't heal people.
People heal themselves.
But the best
healers are the ones
who set up the best
environment that the belief is
going to take place.
>>REGINA: Yes, the
perfect template--
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: --for the outcome.
Why does it say in the Bible:
Because in his own hometown,
because of their non-belief,
he could do no mighty miracles.
This was Jesus.
Because in his own
hometown, there
was a slightly different image
than the rest of the world
has of him.
But there's a very
profound statement there.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: If somebody was
the one who does it,
they should be able
to do it every time.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSS: It's their energy.
What we are doing is super
charging people's concepts
by making an environment.
And this is why, I believe,
everybody listening
to the news, all this division,
all this negativity, as opposed
to if you were in a society
where everything was possible,
where the belief system was
so strong that people just
assumed, well, you
could instantaneously
take care of this.
Like the Kahunas, who are
able to do their magic.
Like the Laplanders in Lapland,
who sing particular songs,
and they heal split
open arteries,
instantaneous healing.
Why?
Their culture believes and
knows this is going to happen.
So if you and I
grew up in a society
where everything is possible.
Now there is a great book
by a man named Talbot called
"The Holographic Universe."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: And one of the
chapters, chapter 7
is called A Pocketful
of Miracles.
And in it, he talks about
all these things you
and I are going to
talk about, including
the example of a man
named Nathan Coker, who
was a blacksmith, who
would handle molten lead,
and put it in his mouth
until it cooled off,
and nothing would happen to him.
Or a 12-year-old boy who
would throw red hot horseshoes
and play with them.
And the doctors and the New York
Herald in 1871 investigated.
They analyzed.
They go, their skin is
just like everybody else.
And they interviewed
him, little boy.
Oh, nobody told me I
can't play with these.
Nathaniel Coker, well, can't
everybody do this, molten lava?
Not lava, but people
walk across lava also.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>ROSS: It is if you
expect something to happen.
If it is commonplace
in that area.
We are all capable
of doing that.
So the Pocketful of Miracles
talks about societies
that have a belief.
And everyone in
the society can do
exactly what they all believe.
But even with that,
Regina, I don't
believe in making
boundaries because that's
what they believe.
But could there be even more?
>>REGINA: Even more.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Well, actually, I was going
to bring something else up.
But that's what
this book is about.
>>ROSS: Correct.
>>REGINA: This amazing book.
It's in French.
And it's about the
truth of miracles
that had taken place and
been documented in what?
17-- when was this
book published?
>>ROSS: This book was
published in 1737.
And it is obviously,
the original book.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: And in the--
around 1735, in Paris,
France, individuals
had gone to a tomb of
their religious leader who
had recently died.
And there was a couple of
very spontaneous healings.
But then, a whole group,
more than 1,000 people,
started going into a
trance-like state, where
they would be struck with
30-pound sledgehammers 50
times in the stomach with
no damage to the body.
Women would lie on a spike
and have a 50 pound stone
drop, 20 feet, no damage to the
skin, nothing on their back.
They were burned.
They were cut and
sliced with knives.
Nothing penetrated their skin.
So the Catholic Church at the
time and the French parliament
goes, whoa, wait a minute,
we're hearing reports.
So they send this author
out from the parliament
to investigate.
He starts as a skeptic.
Meanwhile, they had to
send 3,000 volunteers out
to watch over these people
because when they were being
burned, the women's
clothes would burn off,
but they were naked.
So the church sent out
these people to protect--
>>REGINA: For modesty purposes.
>>ROSS: And that's
exactly what they said.
Well, this author goes out.
This book is documented
with notary testaments
and statements of
everything these people
were doing, which is--
I'm not even stating it
all, they used hatchets,
they used sledgehammers.
>>REGINA: Jesus.
>>ROSS: Nothing.
>>REGINA: I mean, did they
do this to each other?
I mean--
>>ROSS: No.
They invited the
people, strike me.
>>REGINA: To come and do this.
>>ROSS: They would
say, strike me again.
Hit-- strike me again harder.
>>REGINA: So people
brought their-- whatever
their apparatus from home.
>>ROSS: Every single thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Wow.
>>ROSS: And in this book are
the testimonials, what happened,
that before, the after.
So the result of
this book is this man
is imprisoned in the
Bastille because they--
>>REGINA: They sent
him out to document it.
>>ROSS: That's right.
>>REGINA: They didn't--
because they couldn't explain.
>>ROSS: They could
not explain it.
So then eventually--
and I'm not--
I'm just going to
mention the religion.
The Catholic Church
came and said,
this was the devil's work.
And the devil made
all of them do that.
However, why did
this impress me?
I have always been interested
in human potential,
and how far we can go, and
beliefs, and manifestations.
And these thousands
of people knew--
they knew that they
could not be harmed.
Now if somebody looks
at that and thinks,
wow, I mean, that's
rare, 60 year--
and by the way, the people were
called the Convulsionnaires.
They were Jansenist
philosophy Protestant.
Now 50 years before this, there
was another uprising religious
that the Catholic Church
was not happy with.
And that group of soldiers went
out and were firing bullets
at these people.
And the bullets were found
between their clothing
and their body, never
striking their body.
So I, as a researcher,
like these anomalies.
But are they really anomalies
or are all of us capable?
If you have 1,000 people doing
these things in this book,
that's different than one man--
>>REGINA: Yes, exactly.
>>ROSS: --one
prophet, one mystic.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: It's--
>>REGINA: It's not
random one off.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
It's there.
Now you and I are going to talk
about, is fear the motivator?
>>REGINA: Well,
because that's what
I wanted to ask you about
is this hysterical strength.
And now you touched on
this a little while ago,
that someone in under
certain conditions
can lift far more
than the human body is
supposed to be capable of.
>>ROSS: Right.
And you and I,
before the show, I
sent you about the woman
whose little young baby
boy is under the car, and
the woman lifts the car.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: Lifts the car
up and the baby gets--
and as a result,
the person who wrote
the story of "The Hulk" and the
comic strip read that article.
And "The Hulk" is
based on this woman.
>>REGINA: This woman.
Yes.
>>ROSS: Not a man--
>>REGINA: I was
fascinated by that.
>>ROSS: By this woman.
But now here's the thing.
She didn't do it out of--
did she do it out of fear
or out of love?
>>REGINA: She did
it out of love.
It's her baby.
>>ROSS: And that's
the difference.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's talk about that because
most people would say, just
by the current medical
model, that her system was
flooded with cortisol.
And this gave her
superhuman strength.
And it was the cortisol
responding to fear,
like stop this now.
My baby's going to be killed.
So how do we put these
two concepts together?
And is that superhuman fear,
superhuman love, how does that
work if it's love versus fear?
Or you can't--
>>ROSS: Do you believe?
>>REGINA: --how--
are the two the same?
>>ROSS: If we believe that it's
fear and it's the cortisol,
the doctors, and their limits,
and their explanations,
even in science and
physics is nonsensical.
They're always going,
oh, this happened.
And this was present.
So this had to be the cause.
Not necessarily.
I can look at it and say, do
we need to have cortisol to--
>>REGINA: Do superhuman feats.
>>ROSS: --stimulate it?
No.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSS: No.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about that for a moment.
>>ROSS: I believe that once it
comes into our consciousness--
here's a good example.
When I read the book,
"The Patanjali Aphorisms,"
"Yoga Aphorisms," there
were all the things
you could do after 10 years
of intensive yoga training.
I was very fortunate to
experience all of these two
days after I read them.
And I was eating meat.
And I certainly wasn't doing
any kind of yogic stuff.
But when I attempted to do
it later out of curiosity,
I wasn't able to,
but I was shown
that we are capable of
doing all of these things.
But if you believe you
need 10 years of a yogi,
then it's going
to take 10 years.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>ROSS: But the
transcendentalists
were hugging trees and getting
cosmic consciousness as
opposed.
Yogic story.
Man, businessman, heavy duty
businessman wakes up one day
and goes, what is
life all about?
What's my purpose?
So he says to one
of his partners.
They say, go to the
metaphysical bookstore.
They will have the answer.
So he goes.
And they go, you
need to go to Tibet.
Go to the yogis.
So this man flies,
goes to the Himalayas.
Wrong time of year.
Not dressed.
Collapses in the snow.
So when he wakes up, the
yogis are there, and they go,
what are you doing here?
And he goes, I've come for
the secret of existence.
Have I come to the right place?
And they go, no.
And he goes, well,
where do I need to go?
They said, where
did you come from?
And he mentioned,
your city, whatever.
And they said, that's
where the answer is.
It's always with you.
It's not outside.
It's not with anybody else.
It is with us.
So we want to believe
it takes 10 years,
it's going to take 10 years.
You want to believe, which
I've seen someone burned
in my presence with an iron, was
getting a blister, they joked.
Hey, you're supposed
to be the healer.
Why don't you do something?
So I went over.
Was gone, but they
still had a pain.
Blew on it, the pain was gone.
Why?
No special.
I don't want people writing me.
I want them to understand.
>>REGINA: Do it ourselves.
Yes.
>>ROSS: Do yourself and
know that it is possible.
And I'm probably a good
example because I'm a goofball.
I was in sports.
I eat meat.
I enjoy being with
the opposite sex--
you don't have to be celibate
and only eat vegetarian
if that's the belief.
This is the incredible Earth
plane era we live in, Regina,
right now.
But PP Quimby, the great
healer, said, "Thought
is like the aroma of a rose."
You don't see the
aroma, but it permeates.
But understand, everybody's
rose auras or negative auras
are coming upon us every second.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: They're permeating.
And can we stop it?
Yes, if we're aware that we
may be feeling not bad within
ourselves, but we're--
it's called pick up.
We're picking up the
energies of other people.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSS: We're picking
up their vibrations.
Thoughts are everything.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: And now there
was a great book
many years, 30 years, the body
believes every word you say.
>>REGINA: Why is it then that
we have so much harder time
healing ourselves
when-- even when
you can work with healing
energy, as you do,
and others, including
myself do with other people?
>>ROSS: And right before
I answer that question, I
want to go back to
an experience I had
when I was first in the field.
A very good friend of mine
called me up, a nurse,
and said, our friend, Cindy,
she's in a bathtub now.
She's in excruciating pain.
Please, she does not want
to go into the hospital.
And this is coming from
a nurse friend, saying,
we don't want to take
her to the hospital.
Please help her with the pain.
So I go over.
And within minutes,
all the pain was gone.
And I was very proud of myself.
And then the voice goes, she's
got to go to the hospital
right now.
So I said, you've got
to go to the hospital.
So they go into the hospital.
The hospital said,
30 minutes more and--
>>REGINA: She'd have been dead.
>>ROSS: Dead.
Now what happened?
I just got rid of the pain.
>>REGINA: The pain.
You didn't get rid
of the problem.
>>ROSS: That's exactly right.
>>REGINA: So this
stuff is nuanced.
And we all-- every one of
us has to start playing
with this in our own way.
But the main thing
is to understand,
this capability actually is
going to become everyday stuff,
not magic.
In our future incarnations,
which we're already
leading into, this
will be everyday stuff
that we, as a species, do.
>>ROSS: From the people
who are going to be open.
And I always would love
everybody to have these.
And I did not answer
your question,
why we tend to always be
stronger in the negative--
>>REGINA: In helping
someone else.
>>ROSS: Yes.
Than our own self.
>>REGINA: Before ourselves.
Yeah.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Why is that?
>>ROSS: I can look
and be brutally honest
and say, it's the
same thing with me.
I have-- I'm in my 75th year.
I've been doing this
for a long time.
And I have things happen.
And I ask myself that because
there is a little bit of doubt.
But when I've analyzed
myself sometimes, I've said,
do I deserve this?
Do I deserve being able
to use this energy I have
to help other people on myself?
So despite studying
and being involved
in working with thousands
of people, we're all human.
We live in a human body.
And I go through the same
things as other people do.
>>REGINA: Yes, you do.
I know.
Because I know you.
I know you.
And so maybe this is part of it
too is this beauty in the fact
that it is a circle.
We're all here together.
And we're all here
to help one another.
And to also have the
humility in ourselves to say,
I'm not at my strongest.
Can you help me?
>>ROSS: Yes.
And that is important.
So when-- because I don't want
people leaving the show, going,
oh, my God.
I'm not going to
go to my doctor.
listen to people.
>>REGINA: No.
I'm going to call Steven.
No.
No, this is to restart
looking inside.
>>ROSS: It's about balance.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: Jesus was the balanced
middle way, the Buddhist,
the balanced path.
It is knowing when we should
or could be doing things
and when we need assistance.
I have never joined
any group organization,
but that doesn't mean that I
don't find them interesting
or have not taken things.
I just don't want to be
limited by the concepts of who
we are listening to, working.
That is why-- and
you know the library.
It's a 20,000 volume library.
>>REGINA: Research Foundation.
You're a library that has
books like these in it.
>>ROSS: I made a point
never to read these--
two books in a row
by the same author.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ROSS: Another--
read another one.
>>REGINA: Because you're just
reinforcing the belief then.
>>ROSS: Over and over and over.
Now I'm not saying
I didn't speed
read the second one to get
back to the first, but it was--
Emerson said, when I
find narrow viewpoints,
I find narrow reading.
And that is exposure.
So what is the key?
What's the underlying key?
To be with positive people.
To not listen to the
freaking news and the TV hour
after hour.
I don't like this.
I don't-- that's negative,
negative, negative, negative.
And then we wonder, well, how
come we can't be positive?
How come we can't
heal ourselves?
Why?
>>REGINA: Because we're
bathing in a sea of negativity.
>>ROSS: We-- see,
that's beautiful.
Your audience is
lucky they have you.
But I think they know that.
>>REGINA: They already
know this about themselves.
Most of them have quit
watching that stuff.
[LAUGHS]
>>ROSS: But--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ROSS: But that's the point.
>>REGINA: One final question
because our time is up.
And it's just flown-- all
these things we didn't get to,
goodness gracious.
But the difference
between belief and faith.
>>ROSS: Yes.
Well, the explanation, if
you look at the encyclopedia
or dictionary, would
be, with faith, it is--
you know it's going to happen.
With belief, it's a belief.
You think it may happen.
>>REGINA: It's still
a little theoretical.
You hope.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And that is why the three
edicts that the great alchemist
Paracelsus, the greatest
mystic alchemist
healer of all time, the three
keys to all manifestation,
imagination, faith, and will.
Picture what you
want to manifest.
Know-- he didn't say believe.
Know that it must
manifest, and the will
to stay the course
until it does happen.
So what do I want to leave your
audience with, trust yourself.
Know these things are possible.
Immerse yourself and know
these are not rare occurrences,
but they're there.
You do not need to be
jacked up with fear.
But if you just know
"Life and Teachings
of the Masters of the Far
East" by Baird Spalding,
five volume set.
Read volume 1 to the half of
volume 2, about what people
supposedly in India were doing.
Why supposedly?
They have investigated.
And a lot of people say, hey,
he never met these masters.
He did in the internal realms,
who were passing information.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: Listen to the spirits
around us, what is possible.
>>REGINA: Well, there's
nothing we can add to that.
Steven, thank you so much.
It's such a joy being
around you always.
>>ROSS: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: And thank
you for bringing
to us the absolute necessity
for us to begin having faith.
Faith knowing in ourselves.
>>ROSS: And be happy.
>>REGINA: And be happy.
[LAUGHS] Thank
you again, Steven.
Again, if you're not
familiar with Steven's work,
you can enjoy hours of viewing
my previous conversations
with him here on "Gaia."
You can also go to
lesscomplicated.net
to connect with Steven and
his truly praiseworthy archive
of documents and books
on philosophy, healing,
and many other subjects
from throughout the ages.
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]